Initial updates to recruitment FAQs (#157)
alan-turing-institute/REG-handbook: content/docs/join_us/recruitment_FAQs.md

- [Application Stage](#application-stage)
- [Profile](#profile)
- [Role](#role)
- [Interview](#interview)
- [Offer](#offer)

## Application Stage

### Is the position open to applicants outside of the UK who do not currently have a UK work visa?

Yes, the positions are open to applicants outside the UK.
If you do not currently have the Right to Work in the UK, the Turing will sponsor a Skilled Worker visa application (see [below](#does-the-turing-cover-relocation-and-visa-costs) for details).
If you have general questions about the process, feel free to reach out to the [REG recruitment team][recruitment]; however, once your application has started, you should direct any questions about your specific situation to the Resourcing Officer who is handling your application.

### Are you accepting remote applicants?

Members need to be based in the UK.

> However, you do not need to be in the London office every day: almost all of our work is done in a hybrid manner, and we have team members as far away as Scotland and the South West of England.

Reviewer: I would write this section as the follows:

> Members need to be based in the UK. However, you do not need to be in the London office every day nor on a regular weekly schedule, as almost all of our work is done in a hybrid manner. We have team members that live further away in places such as Scotland and the South West of England that come to the office less frequently. The on paper expectation is that it would not be unreasonable to ask team members to spend up to four days a month in the office, but in practice we have been able to support a range of hybrid working patterns with fewer days in the office. We prefer to let the work to be done dictate the most effective collaboration style for carrying it out, and thus there may be some reasonable variation across projects in terms of requirements for in-office work. We also hold two in-person team events per year, the Team Away Day in the winter and Hack Week in June.

I note that we don't have a page describing either the Away Day or the Hack Week in the handbook (yet), but issue #20 talks about this so I've dropped a comment there to link to the FAQ page.

We don't have this information for 2024 yet.
We will update this page when we do.

### What roles are you currently hiring for?

The roles within our team are **Research Data Scientist** (RDS), **Research Software Engineer** (RSE), and **Research Computing Engineer** (RCE).
You can read more about these roles [here](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/research-engineering/meet-the-team).

The RDS and RSE roles form part of the same job description; the skillset we look for is the same and there is no difference as to the projects you are given when you join.
You are given a choice of which job title you prefer when starting.
You can also change your job title later if you feel that the other is a more accurate description.

For this recruitment round, we will be hiring at Junior, Standard, and Senior levels.
The difference between these are explained in the respective job descriptions.
If you think you have enough experience to apply for the higher position, you can do so.
You can also apply to the more junior role and mention in your cover letter that you are also considering more senior position, in case you feel your profile or working experience is between the two.

> <!-- TODO: Check with Eric whether every application at a given level will also be considered at the other levels if more appropriate. -->

Reviewer 2: Answer is yes

- [Application Stage](#application-stage)
- [Profile](#profile)
- [Role](#role)
- [Interview](#interview)
- [Offer](#offer)

## Application Stage

### Is the position open to applicants outside of the UK who do not currently have a UK working Visa but could obtain one?

> Yes, the positions are open to applicants outside the UK and our recruitment team ([recruitment@turing.ac.uk](mailto:recruitment@turing.ac.uk)) will be able to offer you additional information on the process of obtaining a working Visa.

Author: @IFenton I changed this one as per your comment [here](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/REG-handbook/pull/157/files#r1765125377)

@cptanalatriste, did you have much contact with the Turing re. applying for your visa? I think recruitment is the best contact for this as they were the ones who sent me the certificate of sponsorship, wondering if your experience was the same :)

Author: looking back through my old emails it wasn't recruitment@turing but rather specific people who were emailing me so I've actually just updated it to say speak to the person who's emailing you 😅 i think that's the most appropriate

- [Application Stage](#application-stage)
- [Profile](#profile)
- [Role](#role)
- [Interview](#interview)
- [Offer](#offer)

> 

Reviewer 2: It occurs to me that maybe applicants should get in touch with recruitment rather than HR for advice on visas (point below)? I can't seem to find any info on it though - any ideas @penelopeysm

Members need to be based in the UK.
However, you do not need to be in the London office every day: almost all of our work is done in a hybrid manner, and we have team members as far away as Scotland and the South West of England.
It is (at least on paper) expected that you will be in the office four days a month, and there are two events through the year where we encourage everyone to come in: the Away Days (two days in February) and Hack Week (one week in June).

### What would be the starting date?

In the past, we have preferred that people start within three months of an offer being made; we are also happy for successful candidates to start sooner.

> <!-- TODO: Check shortest and longest time people have joined post-offer -->

Author: @IFenton @phinate I think you all might be good representatives of short and long respectively? For me it was almost exactly the full 3 months between offer and start.

Author: ```suggestion
We generally prefer that people start within three months of an offer being made.
However, if necessary, we can also accommodate shorter or longer periods between the offer and starting; for previous candidates this time has ranged from 1 month to ~ 6 months.
```

Would this be fair? I think it's good to have an exact range because that tells applicants whether they should bother applying.

### Does the Turing cover relocation and visa costs?

Yes; the Turing recognises that relocating and applying for a visa have different associated costs and therefore will provide support for both.
The Turing will reimburse up to:

- £4000 for the cost of a visa application (including the NHS immigration surcharge);
- £2000 for relocation costs (if you are moving from Europe or the UK, as long as the move is over 50 miles); and
- £4000 for relocation costs (if you are moving from further overseas).

All claims should be submitted within a year of the employment start date to Finance.

> For existing staff, visa claims should be submitted within one year of the visa renewal or amendment: more information can be found on [Mathison](https://mathison.turing.ac.uk/Interact/Pages/Section/ContentListing.aspx?subsection=4141&utm_source=interact&utm_medium=quick_search&utm_term=relocation).

Reviewer 2: Probably need to add a note that I think people can only access Mathison once they join the Turing

Author: I removed this as it's not really relevant for people applying to the job, you only need to know this once you start (and hopefully we'll have a proper handbook page on it in the near future).

### I don't have a physics / maths / computer science background. Is that okay?

That is completely fine.
Our team includes people with backgrounds in chemistry and biology, as well as the social sciences.

In practice, we do not often work on projects that align closely with our own academic backgrounds.
As long as you are willing to pick up new skills and domains as you go along, your own background will not be a barrier.

### I'm a woman / person of colour / LGBTQ+ / person with disabilities / part of an underrepresented groups. Am I welcome to apply?

Very much so!
As a team, we are committed to creating a diverse and inclusive environment, and are always open to ways that we can improve this.

You can read about a sample of the EDI initiatives in REG and the Turing on [this page]({{< relref "docs/working_at_the_turing/edi" >}}).

> Also, if you would like to speak to somebody in REG (in confidence) about this before applying, please do get in touch with the [REG recruitment team][recruitment].

Author: @phinate This feels too dry to me. Please help me make it sound more cheerful 😄

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### I'm a woman / black / queer/ disabled / identify with a minority group. Will I feel welcome in the team?

**We want you**. Inclusivity and diversity aren't just things we encourage because we're beholden to some corporate criteria; we believe they are *essential* to good research. We'd really encourage you to apply!

Our team has a very motivated group of people that work on things like
- Inputting to institute-wide policies (e.g. trans and non-binary inclusion)
- Doing analysis of diversity data, like for our [Gender Pay Gap Report](https://www.turing.ac.uk/sites/default/files/2023-03/2023.03.30_gender_pay_gap_report.pdf)
- Making job ads more inclusive (not closing applications early, publishing salary bands, using clear language)
- Being ambassadors for REG and the Turing at events like the [Hopper Colloquium](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/computer-science/about/equity-diversity-and-inclusion/gender-equality-athena-swan/london-hopper-colloquium) and the [BCSWomen Lovlace event](https://bcswomenlovelace.bcs.org/)
- Attending network groups -- a place to find community, organise events, and work on issues specific to that network. They exist for
    - LGBTQIA+
    - Race equality
    - Gender equality
    - Disabilities
- and much more!

You can read more about a sample of the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) initiatives in REG and the Turing on [this page]({{< relref "docs/working_at_the_turing/edi" >}}).

Also, if you would like to speak to somebody in REG (in confidence) about this before applying, we would completely welcome that. Reach out to the [REG recruitment team][recruitment] -- we'd love to chat!
```

Reviewer 3: went maximalist to try and demonstrate we care about stuff, but could also come across as try-harding. thoughts @penelopeysm @KatrionaGoldmann?

Reviewer 3: i see what you mean -- since we're reaching out to minorities here, i thought to add a couple of specifics. i've generally not enjoyed using POC due to seeing how in the US it becomes a drop-in substitute for black, and then loses all meaning (e.g. [this](https://www.gq.com/story/author-damon-young-on-bipoc-phrasing)). same reasoning as saying "i am a woman" instead of "i am a person of gender", i guess? 

though what we really mean is "I am not a cis-het-white male" :)

Author: I think other gender minorities (all flavours of nonbinary) would probably be captured under LGBTQ+. I guess not every nonbinary person will identify as trans, but we need to strike a balance between succinctness and coverage. Re. race, I'm just conscious that we do have members of the team who are non-black ethnic minorities (myself included, even though I don't feel it particularly strongly myself).

Reviewer 3: sure, happy to revert to the original descriptors! just added ✨IA+✨, gotta shout out our intersex + asexual peeps 🏳️‍🌈

Author: Yes totally!

Reviewer 4: Can we change to 'welcome and supported'?

Reviewer 3: your suggestion is both welcome and supported

### I don't have a physics / maths / computer science background. Is that okay?

That is completely fine.
Our team includes people with backgrounds in chemistry and biology, as well as the social sciences.

In practice, we do not often work on projects that align closely with our own academic backgrounds.
As long as you are willing to pick up new skills and domains as you go along, your own background will not be a barrier.

### I'm a woman / person of colour / LGBTQIA+ / person with disabilities / part of an underrepresented group(s). Will I feel welcome and supported in the team?

> **We want you**.

Reviewer 2: I'd be inclined to change this to "We'd love to have you join our team", but that's personal preference

We'd really encourage you to apply!

Our team has a very motivated group of people that work on things such as:

- inputting to institute-wide policies (e.g. trans and non-binary inclusion)
- doing analysis of diversity data, like for our [Gender Pay Gap Report](https://www.turing.ac.uk/sites/default/files/2023-03/2023.03.30_gender_pay_gap_report.pdf)
- making job ads more inclusive (not closing applications early, publishing salary bands, using clear language)
- being ambassadors for REG and the Turing at events like the [Hopper Colloquium](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/computer-science/about/equity-diversity-and-inclusion/gender-equality-athena-swan/london-hopper-colloquium) and the [BCSWomen Lovelace event](https://bcswomenlovelace.bcs.org/)
- Attending network groups – a place to find community, organise events, and work on issues specific to that network. They exist for
    - LGBTQIA+
    - Race equality
    - Gender equality
    - Disability and wellbeing
- and much more!

You can read more about a sample of the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) initiatives in REG and the Turing on [this page]({{< relref "docs/working_at_the_turing/edi" >}}).

> Also, if you would like to speak to somebody in REG (in confidence) about this before applying, we would completely welcome that.

Author: I hesitate to promise that 'people you speak to won't be involved in your application', because that was not my experience when I applied to REG. @IFenton Do you think this can definitely be arranged? If you're confident, please feel free to edit this bit

> Also, if you would like to speak to somebody in REG (in confidence) about this before applying, we would completely welcome that.

Reviewer 2: I've updated the wording to clarify this

If you think you have enough experience you can apply to the Standard position and stress this in your cover letter.
You can also apply to the Junior position and mention in your cover letter that you are also considering the Standard position, in case you feel your profile or working experience is in between the two.
Feel free to get in touch with the REG recruitment team ([reg-recruitment-inbox@turing.ac.uk][recruitment]) about this point.

### What kind of projects do you work on in REG?

The projects at the Turing largely fall into three themes, namely Environment and Sustainability; Health; and Defence and National Security.
These projects tend to revolve around the _application_ of data science and AI to solve challenges in these areas.
Apart from this, there are also projects in foundational research in data science and AI.

You can see a list of projects we are currently working on on [our website](https://alan-turing-institute.github.io/REG/).

### Are working hours flexible?

Formally, the Turing's core working hours are between 10 and 4.

> Most people would work these hours plus some additional time on either side.

Reviewer 2: I would add something like "to make up their 36 hour working week.", as I think that is what is in our contract

### What kind of projects do you work on in REG?

The projects at the Turing largely fall into three themes, namely Environment and Sustainability; Health; and Defence and National Security.
These projects tend to revolve around the _application_ of data science and AI to solve challenges in these areas.
Examples of past projects in these areas are:
 - E&S example please
 - Health example please

>  - D&NS example please

Author: Err, we didn't quite catch this.

Author: No, that's an old version of the file. Apologies for the noise.

- [Turing podcast episodes](https://www.podbean.com/media/share/pb-vrci3-1366a21?utm_campaign=w_share_ep&utm_medium=dlink&utm_source=w_share): REG appear on episodes covering a range of topics, including [AI for the Skies](https://www.podbean.com/media/share/pb-zzidx-d7bb24?utm_campaign=w_share_ep&utm_medium=dlink&utm_source=w_share), [Fantasy Football AI](https://www.podbean.com/media/share/pb-5afja-df2052?utm_campaign=w_share_ep&utm_medium=dlink&utm_source=w_share), [3D printed bridges](https://www.podbean.com/media/share/pb-qekh3-dfe740?utm_campaign=w_share_ep&utm_medium=dlink&utm_source=w_share), [Reproducible data science](https://www.podbean.com/media/share/pb-wxkjp-ecfa7f?utm_campaign=w_share_ep&utm_medium=dlink&utm_source=w_share), [The problems of AI](https://www.podbean.com/media/share/pb-dyq36-112350b?utm_campaign=w_share_ep&utm_medium=dlink&utm_source=w_share) and [Living with Machines](https://www.podbean.com/media/share/pb-s9das-1275eb2?utm_campaign=w_share_ep&utm_medium=dlink&utm_source=w_share).

## Interview

### Could you describe the interview process?

> As mentioned in the job description, all interviews are held remotely.

Reviewer 2: We're looking in to whether we can hold in person interviews if that works better for the applicant

It is much, much more usual for team members to be working on other people's projects than their own.
If you would like to prioritise pursuing your own research agenda at the Turing there are [other types of positions](https://www.turing.ac.uk/opportunities-turing) at the Institute that allow you to do this.

> <!-- TODO: This probably needs an update from Martin or somebody senior; I'm not sure if this is really true in T2.0 -->

Reviewer: Yes, we should delete the paragraph in lines 238-244. In T2.0 we expect our work to be fully aligned to the grand challenges and thus we should be clear about this expectation when joining the team. I think you address this in the right way by encouraging those interested in research roles to apply for specific ones relevant to them in line 235.

1. the underlying algorithms or methods your code is implementing or using, and
1. the research domain or question for which you are applying them.

We will not evaluate you on the complexity of the algorithm, but in your understanding of its implementation, awareness of its potential drawbacks, and its overall appropriateness to solve the problem you are trying to address.

You can write new code specifically for the interview if you so choose, but existing examples of work are encouraged, as long as the code was substantially written by you.
You should be prepared to answer questions about both the code and the research challenge it addresses or the algorithm it demonstrates.
Any source code shared for the interview will be treated in the strictest of confidence.

### What sort of code have previous candidates presented?

We collected several examples of code that have been presented by current team members in their interviews.
Some are scripts / notebooks which were put together specifically to demonstrate a particular technique for the interview:

- A Jupyter notebook with a data analysis pipeline to solve an old Kaggle competition

> - A notebook (and module0 demonstrating inference and analysis with a hidden Markov model using TensorFlow Probability, applied to synthetic healthcare data

Author: For all the examples here that aren't ours, I've asked the people who submitted them for explicit consent. There are more which I haven't yet added.

I'd like to have more examples of not-libraries, but the 2 other people who submitted this are off work atm 😅 We can add more later but for now I think this is a decent start.

Reviewer 2: I'm happy to include my example (though I'd have to put it on GitHub first) - it wasn't a library, just a function for analysing some data.

Reviewer 2: Here's a link - https://github.com/IFenton/Sediment-age-depth. When I get back, I'll add the data so it can actually be run, but that will need a bit of tidying / checking permissions

1. the underlying algorithms or methods your code is implementing or using, and
1. the research domain or question for which you are applying them.

> We will not evaluate you on the complexity of the algorithm, but in your understanding of its implementation, awareness of its potential drawbacks, and its overall appropriateness to solve the problem you are trying to address.

Author: It's probably the former, but will edit to clarify!

## Offer

### Is the offered salary negotiable?

Fairness and transparency are key values for us and our goal is to avoid inequity by ensuring we are paying people the same salary for the same level of contribution to the team.
We make initial salary offers at 0/3, 1/3, and 2/3 through the advertised salary range, based on the level and applicability of each candidate’s experience relative to their future peers already working in the team.
**Our offers are not negotiable.**

### What is salary progression like in the role?

Each year, there is a cost of living increase which is applied to all Turing employees.

> On top of this, we also have annual pay reviews, where we actively review the performance and development of each team member against the expectations of their position within their seniority band, making salary adjustments where these expectations are being exceeded.

Reviewer 2: Maybe add a comment about applying to more senior roles within the team?

"We also hold annual internal promotion rounds to allow people to move up to the next level of seniority when they are ready. There is no cap on the number of junior, standard and senior roles, so promotion is not limited by availability"

> On top of this, we also have annual pay reviews, where we actively review the performance and development of each team member against the expectations of their position within their seniority band, making salary adjustments where these expectations are being exceeded.

Reviewer 2: Maybe add a comment about applying to more senior roles within the team?

"We also hold annual internal promotion rounds to allow people to move up to the next level of seniority when they are ready. There is no cap on the number of junior, standard and senior roles, so promotion is not limited by availability"
